2019.4.10 Class notes
======

Algorithm
------

Basic concept. ~~no fun, lazy to write down.~~

- Correctness:
  - Problem formilation
  - Instance / test cases

- Complexity:
  - time / space complexuty
  - machine independence `not on specific machine, but on general machines`
  - based on growth `As input size grows, how the overall process time grows`
  - O(n)

I guess you don't need to know how to get O(n) complexity for the linearSearch problem. Good luck if you need to figure it out on your own.

- some examples of time complexity
  - O(1): read, write some data, or arithemic operation
  - O(logn): binary search
  - O(n): linear search
  - O(n^2)

  ...

  - O(2^n)
  - O(n!)

- Binary Search (Divide and Conquer 分治算法)

Refer to the `binarySearch.py` for detailed reference. But I guess there is no need.

Other notations for time complexity
------

[Data Structures - Asymptotic Analysis](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/data_structures_algorithms/asymptotic_analysis.htm)

> Best Case − Minimum time required for program execution.
>
> Average Case − Average time required for program execution.
>
> Worst Case − Maximum time required for program execution.

- The notation **Ο(n)** is the formal way to express the upper bound of an algorithm's running time. It measures the _worst case_ time complexity or the longest amount of time an algorithm can possibly take to complete.
- The notation **Ω(n)** is the formal way to express the lower bound of an algorithm's running time. It measures the _best case_ time complexity or the best amount of time an algorithm can possibly take to complete.
- The notation **θ(n)** is the formal way to express _both the lower bound and the upper bound_ of an algorithm's running time. It is represented as follows